Well we have taken care about logging out manually and we have taken care about logging in automatically.
But now I want to focus on also making sure that we are able to log the user out automatically when
the token expired.
Now I will say that with firebase you're also getting that refresh token that you could in theory use
to get a fresh valid main token here in the official box.
You can learn how to exchange a refresh token for an I.D. token.
Where to send the request to and you could send that request whenever you're interacting with the other
Firebase and points or is set a timer that exchanges the refresh token for an I.D. token every 10 minutes.
Anything like that.
I'll not add this logic here but I at least want to lock to use route when it token expires.
Now how can we implement this.
We have all the log in here.
Now I will also add an audio log out method.
It's a private method which I'll name all the log out.
And I expect to get adoration here which should be a number which is basically the timer I want to set.
It's not always one hour because I also want to set this when we order locked in the user which of course
can be the case with a token that's only valid for 10 more minutes.
So here I get dead duration and I can then use set timeout to set a timer based on that duration.
And in the function it executes off their desperation I will simply call this log out.
So the same method I call when I manually log out.
Now of course I want to make sure that I clear any timers Whenever I set a new one for days I'll add
a new property here private active log out timer which is of type any and down there in auto log out
I will store my timer in this act of log out timer.
Therefore if I set a new timer I'll check if this active log out the timer is set and I'll then call
clear timeout for this active log old timer to remove the existing active log out the timer because
I'm about to set a new one I want to do the same here for a logging out so I'll copy that logic and
all the added here into log out to remove any existing log out timers.
And then there is one extra thing we can do in services as well we can actually implement on destroy
here imported from adding LA core just as you can do it in components you can also add on destroy to
services and this will then somebody give you a place where you can run cleanup logic for debt service
and that in my case would be that I also want to clean up any existing timer's whenever dis service
gets destroyed to prevent memory leaks.
So now we're cleaning up the timer.
We got a method where we would set it theoretically but now of course we need to call.
And where would we do that.
Well I essentially want to call auto log out whenever we log in.
So in log in and sign up and an auto log in all these places where I do log in in all these places we
do log a user in either by calling set user data here and log in and sign up.
Or by executing all the logic here in auto log in Denver and all these places I want to set a timer
for example here in order log in where I do admit my new user.
I also want to call this all the logout and I need to pass in the duration so the remaining time until
the token expires and of course here I need the duration and not the timestamp.
So let's go to the user model and why don't we calculate the remaining time here.
So token duration could be a getter we add in there and therefore here first of all I check if we have
a token loops using this getter here.
And if we don't have a tokens if does this null then I return 0 here because then it is expired right
otherwise I will return new data to get a current timestamp.
So right now in milliseconds with the help of get time minus this token expiration date which is a data
object.
So that although with get time gives us this timestamp in milliseconds.
So now we have the current time minus token expiration time and that of course is the wrong way of calculating
it.
I want to get that token expiration time which should be in the future and deduct the current time so
let's reverse it to this function.
And now I'm returning the difference in milliseconds between the token expiration time and the current
time and that would be the future.
So this should be a positive number if it's negative.
We know it expired.
If it is 0 we know it is expired and on token duration we get this amount in milliseconds.
So back in you off service in all the logout I pass on user token duration which is the amount of the
token or debility off the token in milliseconds.
And of course I don't just call this here in order to log in but also in inset user data which is the
method I'm calling in sign up and log in.
So inset user data where I met my new user.
I also use that user data here which I get this new user object I'm generating here all actually not
do this on the fly but store it in a user constant like this forward does user a constant to the next
method and then also use it down there.
So now we're setting the order logout timer to validate that it works all temporarily go to my user
model and comment out dad real calculation and just return two thousand which are two seconds.
So now when we're testing this and we're automatically locked in we should be locked out after two seconds.
So let me log in here and now let's wait for two seconds and we go back here.
So that's looking good.
It's all to quickly check on the application.
Application tab here.
Data was all cleared.
So now if I interact with the app yet I'm redirected.
Also if I create a new user let's check this if I switch to sign up here I am.
Here I am and now last but not least let's be quick here.
Website.
Need to log in here.
Let's be quick and let's try if this all the works after the order log in and for it is I'll reload
the page here.
Now this should still redirect me so this all works.
Now of course I'll not return two thousand but the real cake calculation and therefore our token should
be valid a bit longer now and actually reflect the well actual validity of the token.
So now if our log in here I should be able to navigate around and interact with the app but eventually
once this token expires which is still some time to go here for me once this expires then I should be
locked out.